Sappari Basics
===============

Sappari is a lightweight CMS developed in Chicken Scheme. The major goals
of this project are:

 * Good performance
 * Ease of use
 * Well-conceived consistent data model
 * Easy navigation

Massive scalability is *not* a goal. Sappari is intended for small to
medium web sites--though if it also proves suitable for large sites, that
would be a welcome result.

The name is a Japanese word that is rather hard to translate. It means
something like clean, clear, refreshed, or refreshing. There are other
meanings, too, but the foregoing are the senses in which we use the word.

In addition to Chicken Scheme, Sappari requires the Redis database for data
persistence and (optional but highly recommended) Git for content
versioning.


Key Concepts
------------

ENTITY: An Entity is a generic abstraction of everything managed by
Sappari. Every entity has a type, and at least an ID and data; depending on
the type, it may have one or more customized data fields. Many of the
following items are specialized types of entities.

NODE: A Node is the basic unit of content. A node is a type of entity; it
has a type, and according to the type, includes customized fields.

NODE TYPE: A Node Type defines fields for nodes of that type.

NODE COLLECTION: A set of 0 or more nodes. A node collection may defined
statically as a list of node IDs, or dynamically using a query.

VIEW: A View is a particular presentation of content, roughly corresponding
to a "page" in traditional web development, or a "resource" in HTTP
terminology. A view typically contains one or more regions, and displays
them according to a style defined in a theme.

REGION: A Region is an area within a view that displays a node collection.
A region has a node selection filter (which generates the collection to be
displayed), a layout specification, and a style.

MODULE: A module is an installable software package that provides
capabilities for Sappari. Everything that can be installed on top of the
basic platform is a module.

ZONE: A zone is a collection of entities, which may be defined by either a
static list or a set of criteria. A zone is an abstract entity that is used
primarily for access control. There are several built-in zones, including
"whole site," "this node," and "all nodes created by the current user."

ROLES: A role has a name, such as "administrator," "editor," or "guest."
Each role has permissions over various entities in the system, and each user
has at least one role.


Official Module Collection
--------------------------

Consists of Recommended modules, sponsored by the core development team,
Community modules, sponsored by a community of trusted users, and
Experimental modules, which are unsponsored and may be untested. Recommended
and Community modules must pass the testing protocol.

Needed
------
 * distributed testing protocol
